The solstice starts far in the
past.
We're about to take a journey
there.
Let's start small.
Who were you yesterday?
What were you doing?
Now, a larger step.
Think of who you were a year
ago.
What have you learned?
How have you changed?
Are you the same person now as
you were then?
Further back now.
Think of your earliest memories,
as far back as you can remember
when you are somehow
identifiably you -
the personality core at that
would carry you forward
to the present day.
Think of your parents, teachers,
or guides.
Who were they?
Where did they come from?
Did they lead you by example?
Or were they a cautionary tale
of what not to become?
What made them who they were,
such that they led you
to become you?
Now let's begin to drift
further back.
Think of the cultures that
shaped your parents or mentors
or peer groups.
Did they have religion?
Did they have an intellectual
community?
Did they come from a culture or
country
with a strong set of traditions?
What do you know of the cultures
that shaped the people who
shaped you?
Now, think of the earliest
stories
that shaped those cultures.
As far back as you know.
What is the earliest clear
memetic seed you can find
that would one day become the
culture that shaped the people
who shaped you in turn?
And now,
think of the earliest stories
you know of, period.
Far and far and far away back,
the first inklings of a dream
that humans breathed into words
that echoed across history.
Think of the first human
explorers who discovered winter.
Imagine surprise or delight the
first time a human being saw
snowflakes falling.
Imagine that surprise
turning to worry
as the snow falls kept coming.
Think of what it would have
been like
to see the darkness descending.
And not to know why.